ipalab-config/ipa-migration/README.md, before:

# Running ipa-migration with ipalab-config

This folder provides some scripts, playbooks and configuration files to automate the creation of an environment to test IPA-to-IPA migration using in a local machine. The environment created contains two IPA servers each hosting its own realm.

## Preparing the environment

Create the configuration:

```
python3 -m venv /tmp/ipalab
. /tmp/ipalab/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Build the containers:

```
ipalab-config -f containerfile-fedora -p playbooks ipalab-migration.yaml
cd ipalab-migration
podman-compose up -d --build
ansible-galaxy collection install -r requirements.yml
```

Deploy the IPA cluster:

```
ansible-playbook -i inventory.yml playbooks/install-cluster.yml
```

To test ipa-migration, first create some objects in the origin server:

```
ansible-playbook -i inventory.yml playbooks/users_present.yml
```

Access the target server container:

```
podman exec -it m2.target.test bash
```

Obtain an IPA administrator TGT ticket (in this example the password is Secret123):
```
echo Secret123 | kinit
```

Put the server into migration mode:
```
ipa config-mod --enable-migration=true
```

Execute the ipa-migration tool, and answer to the questions:

```
ipa-migrate prod-mode m1.origin.test
```

Commit message:

ipa-migrate: improve README file
This commit adds new steps for adding groups, and a new troubleshooting section.

Signed-off-by: Francisco Trivino <ftrivino@redhat.com>

ipalab-config/ipa-migration/README.md, after:

# Running ipa-migration with ipalab-config

This folder provides some scripts, playbooks and configuration files to automate the creation of an environment to test IPA-to-IPA migration using in a local machine. The environment created contains two IPA servers each hosting its own realm.

## Preparing the environment

Create the configuration:

```
python3 -m venv /tmp/ipalab
. /tmp/ipalab/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Build the containers:

```
ipalab-config -f containerfile-fedora -p playbooks ipalab-migration.yaml
cd ipalab-migration
podman-compose up -d --build
ansible-galaxy collection install -r requirements.yml
```

Deploy the IPA cluster:

```
ansible-playbook -i inventory.yml playbooks/install-cluster.yml
```

To test ipa-migration, first create some objects (users and groups) in the origin server:

```
ansible-playbook -i inventory.yml playbooks/users_present.yml
ansible-playbook -i inventory.yml playbooks/groups_present.yml
```

Access the target server container:

```
podman exec -it m2.target.test bash
```

Obtain an IPA administrator TGT ticket (in this example the password is Secret123):
```
echo Secret123 | kinit
```

Put the server into migration mode:
```
ipa config-mod --enable-migration=true
```

Execute the ipa-migration tool, and answer to the questions:

```
ipa-migrate prod-mode m1.origin.test
```


## Troubleshooting
Disaster recovery. The following commands are commonly used to stop all containers, prune unused resources, and remove images:

```
podman stop --all
podman system prune --all --force && podman rmi --all
```

Connect to the Containers:

```
podman ps
podman exec -it <name> bash
```
